group of people that enjoy studying or reading and learning about the American West from Mississippi to California and all around and he was one of the key people to start that and he started getting people to speak to local people on this and bringing some of their collections and I know
Dr. Dykstra House was one of the gentlemen that he knew that he got his, convinced him to leave his papers, and he was in the Parks and National Park Service, the Dykstra House collection.
Did you ever meet Mr. Dykes, Jeff Dykes?
Yes, he came to several of our... Describe him.
He's just a, I don't know, a little short man that was very congenial, and he was always...
wanting to build things for the library, wanted the library to grow.
He was an Aggie, was he?
I believe he was.
I thought, I thought.
But he lived in Maryland.
Yeah.
But he was always down here for ball games and noted things for the university.
And he would always come into the library to see how it was doing.
and he looked for materials, and he was a book collector, and also he would look for materials to add to this collection, because he wanted to build this collection for A&M to make it a noted collection.
Let me turn this.
Did you contact with Perfeo Salinas?
And I just barely know him.
Don't know him well at all, though.
I wish I did.
Do you know who it was that was the primary contact for Mr. Dykes giving the collection to A&M?
Probably Henry Allsmeyer.
Okay.
Or Evelyn Smith, Evelyn King.
And it was before his death.
Right, so because Evelyn is one of the, and I are both charter members of the Westerners Club, so we met him, we'd known him with his contact in the library, but I have a feeling that she was probably one of the primary reasons he left his
And there were no inappropriate strings attached or anything?
It was a true gift?
It was a gift.
Oh, that's marvelous.
We have, so far as I know, we have a policy here.
This was always drummed into us that if you accept a collection, you don't say, well, it has to go in a special room or something.
It has to be in this because that puts too many strings attached to it.
There was one collection given to the library called the Templeton Collection,
And they had a special rug and seating area for a former Aggie and his wife who died.
And they had money for this collection, but it was a dead collection.
Nothing was added to it because the money ran out with them.
And finally they got permission to incorporate it between the rest of the university books, library books, which made it more usable.
What did Mr. Dykes do for a living?
Do you know?
So far as I know, he's a book collector and salesman.
Okay.
I never knew what he did.
Do you remember any, in all of your library work, remember any heavy-handed or inappropriate demands or requests for library service?
Any regent or former student or politician or administrator?
I just know that there was one or two administrators, which I cannot remember their names that, like I said, I mentioned earlier, when he left his office,
Wherever he was going, his secretary always called and said, he is coming.
And if he called and he said he wanted something, everything, everybody stopped what they were doing to find the information and get it to his office.
And a lot of times he'd call at 10 for something that he needed by 11 o'clock.
And I know if he was calling us, Mrs. Castle said, you will find this stuff and you will take it over there right now, not after lunch or anything.
And everybody stopped what they were doing to find the information, because he was an influence with the university administration in our funding and everything.
So we bent over backwards to get this.
And we still, even today, to my knowledge, if someone in the administration calls and says they need something,
That's priority.
It's good politically, makes for good relations with the other department, with the administration, and they aren't that as heavy-handed, but we will put what they need, and more than one person will work on a problem.
If they call in, and you get a call, you say, well, I need help in getting this for
Dr. Bowen, we'll use Dr. Bowen since he's our current president, or whatever, just so that, like I said, we don't want them unhappy with us in saying that our services are not up to par.
Do you remember any time when the library was told a definite no about the possibility of acquiring something, no, no, no, we don't want that or that, or we're not going to have that in our library?
I don't remember anything like that.
I've never heard of any.
I've never heard that either.
I know that there was a time period that caused a lot of stir on campus when we had to cancel a lot of serial publications.
Just because of financing.
Just for financing and we had to stop canceling a lot of the microfilming and
We're still in a bind on this because the cost of serial publications has gone up so much where you and I as an individual could buy a magazine for say like $100 a year.
It's thousands of dollars for a library.
And there was a time period where we said, okay, Dr. Monroe, you subscribe to
whatever America history today or something like this.
So when you get through with it, give it to the library and you would, but when you retire or if you go into greener pastures, the subscription stops because you're stopped giving it to, or you stop buying it, then there's a gap.
But we still accept and we still like getting gifts from people for journals with a stipulation that we can fill in.
missing issues or damaged issues.
And a lot of the people just don't realize that the funding has not gone up, but the cost has gone up.
And so this is kind of, we're having to say no to buying a lot of new things because of that.
And they say, well, you can get it online or get it electronically.
But a lot of the publishers say, you can buy this electronically if you keep the paper subscription.
And so you're double paying for it.
And if you drop the paper,
then you can't afford the electronic version.
And paper versions are going to be around a lot more than some of the electronic because they say every so many years you drop off a year because you're adding another year.
So there's this time period that you may have material that's no longer in existence.
As far as you're aware today, are we comparatively balanced among the disciplines represented by the A&M faculty and student body?
Are we comparatively balanced in what we are acquiring and not acquiring?
Are there some areas where we offer instruction that we're not doing very well compared to some other areas?
I think always your science and engineering budget
takes the cost of their materials.
It's so much more than that in the humanities and social sciences.
So if you do a proration, you say, well, you're buying more humanities than social sciences, but you can get two books for, or three books for one science and engineer,
and type material.
So we're still building the humanities and social science collections.
We're having to build, like I said, the parks and tourism is having to build because that was the recreation or the fun things.
It was not thought of as a discipline, as a
way people are having to stop to think about the use, land use in the country because they're unfortunately, they're not making any more land.
And so much construction and metropolism is taken away with the natural resource uses and so we're having to preserve that and so that collection needs to grow.
Do you all feel that A&M is, compared to the similar institutions nationally, do you all feel that A&M's library is making progress?
We're making progress, but I think some of our statistics are inflated, personally.
We've come up, when you have one to 10, when you say you have 10 fold, that's a big, but then you have someone else that has quite a bit more.
Because when you have little and you double, that's a lot.
But if you have a lot and do it, it's not as much.
And we're still behind so many of the other major ones because the library had not been a major
need for money in this university it was i felt like at the beginning when i first came here it was much more glamorous to buy a nuclear reactor or something in the sciences that had a big splashy name all over the world you said i bought a book well what's a book you know i've got a nuclear reactor you know that's something great that's going to the good of the country the good of the nation a book you know it's that type of
And I think that's why our budget is not growing, because it's not the glamorous that's making the worldwide news.
But you have not been aware of any failure of effort on behalf of the library by its leadership and by concern for the library by presidents and board members and so forth, have you?
I think our library leadership knows we need to grow and improve, and they're trying to make strides in it.
I think maybe some of the, quote, powers that be still want the headlines for the glamorous and the big name items as far as the library.
And some of them are beginning to realize, well, you do need the library for the materials for the research that's put in to build these major projects.
nationwide, worldwide items.
What does the A&M Library, today and in recent years, what does the A&M Library do best?
I think we've always been our service to the people.
We're a people-oriented.
And I don't see as much.
There are times, and those have gone on to other people when it was, I can relate to
our staff in humanities and social science, there's no, I'm the librarian, you're the peon.
We all work together and we feel comfortable in asking, if we don't know the answer, asking someone else.
If we have a student that has a background in something and a patron comes up and asks us a question,
and we don't have the background, but we know even a student, we will ask and consult, and we consult with each other.
We're not, I'm not going to tell you what I'm going to do because you might get more glory.
For example, personally, we have a young man working for us now that his goal is to be a physician's assistant.
And since the science and engineering people
are not there on Saturday mornings, and I've worked with him, and someone asked something that's in a medical term.
His goal, and he is doing this as well as he's going to school, he's gone, he's gone to paramedic training, and he's a paramedic.
He worked volunteers with the EMT program, and he's up on material like that.
I know nothing about that.
I have no qualms at asking, Wally, help me find this.
And he's an undergraduate.
We had a young man that was an architecture student that's no longer here.
And so he was up on the art and architecture.
I didn't have a background in that, and others did not have one.
We have classified staff that may have a degree in, we have one lady's degree in music.
And so you come up with something like that.
So if they have a talent or a knowledge that complements, and we work together to make our, to give the best service we can.
And I think that's the strength of the library.
All right, let's go to the other extreme.
What does the Indian Library do least well for our weaknesses or not as strong points?
Well, our collections need to be built.
That's what I was thinking.
I was just thinking if somebody asked me that question, that's what I would say.
That we're making up for the emotions of the past.
Making up.
Right.
And we're playing catch up.
And we're having to cancel some materials that I don't think we should have to because
Like, for example, they were saying, well, did we want to cancel some of those microfilm copies of some of the newspapers?
Well, we've got a good background in these.
Don't stop now because of the lack of money because we have such a good background.
We don't want to have this gap.
There was a time period where we were having to make choices as to what we bought.
We had an excellent agricultural collection.
And...
That was our strength and our engineering collection.
So we don't need and we didn't need then to cancel materials in those fields.
Why?
To build in the humanities, we need to keep up with that one and get money otherwise to build but not drop off because we had some of the
agricultural publications that there were nowhere else in the United States.
So why should we have a gap in some of these materials just because we need to build somewhere else?
And they did make some gaps in some of the areas.
Some key decisions in your 30-some-odd years, some key decisions that were made regarding the A&M libraries that have turned out to be very good, positive decisions.
Going forward with technology and ergonomics, because ergonomics is a big thing nationwide.
It's good for your workers to have them have the proper equipment to work with, the proper desk.
We have less workman's comp.
problems because we got the voice or the ear of the administration.
The library, in fact, did a demonstration.
We marched on Dr. Perry's office and said, look, we need this.
This is why
so we can better fulfill our jobs.
And most of the people here in the library have been here long tenures.
Most of our people have been here a long time.
We don't have that much turnover among the classified staff where we would if it wasn't for that.
Is there a good variety of background of those people?
I think so.
And a lot of our classified staff have degrees.
It started out, when I first came here, they were wives of students.
And of course, when those husbands graduated, they moved on.
But a lot of them, either their husbands have gotten jobs in this area,
There have been some that have gone on with their husbands, but they've parted company, and so they've come back here because they like the area.
And I know there's a lot of people who say, oh, there's no social activity here, but we're kind of in the central.
There's about a hundred and something miles to Houston.
Almost 200 to Dallas and to Austin.
So we're a nice location, and they can go within a two-hour time period to others.
And we're getting more of the social and cultural things around in Bryan College Station.
We don't have all the shopping malls.
Our traffic pattern is increasing.
We're getting rush hour traffic now.
We're getting housing shortages.
But we're still a good community to live in.
And I think that's keeping a lot of people.
What did, in these years, let's go the other, any mistakes or oversights where we missed some opportunities?
Some things we should have done that didn't?
I think in the expansion of the building, I think we should have more stack space in the new building.
And I think I wish the top administration would see the need for this.
and the need for our budget and realize that materials are growing in price and for us to keep up with just the day-to-day operations.
That doesn't seem to be happening.
Right now we have one of the newest areas on campus and I see other departments and other people eyeing our space and all with covetousness.
and taking away some of the space that I think we need to put other programs in.
I know they're going to open a center for writing, and that's something that the administration wants.
All departments something wants that, and they're housing it here.
This is a nice central location, but we're suffering because we've not started doing the technology I need for our
I'll say special needs people because we had a room set up for adaptive technology and that was supposed to be something that has not been funded and it's not.
They say, well, the students with disabilities office can handle that, but they're not open the hours of the library.
And I see more and more special needs is the term now, people coming to
coming to campus.
I know we built a lot of curb cuts and sidewalks so people in wheelchairs could have access to them.
We've increased in the handicap parking
used to and still to today, I think, if someone in a wheelchair took a class and it was in a classroom that was in the upper floors, that class was moved to a building that was accessible, wheelchair accessible to class.
But I see more blind students on campus.
I see more people in wheelchairs that may have muscular dystrophy.
I know we had one graduate student and she had a service dog with her that
helped pull her wheelchair when her motor didn't do, opened the elevators for her, picked up her dropped pens and pencils and things like that.
So you're seeing more and more people.
I think nowadays more people with these disabilities are coming to college, and they're coming to A&M because we have good programs.
And just because you can't see doesn't mean you can't be
engineer there's an article in the paper of this lady that has gone blind and she's become a well-known artist and I can't imagine painting and not being able to see anything more than lights and darks and she's got a name for herself and so we're seeing more of the blind students we have more handicapped probably professors on campus than we did in the past.
How in your years how was
How would you summarize A&M's move to coeducation?
How well was that done?
In the move to coeducation, there was a lot of resistance.
By primarily whom?
A lot of the Board of Regents, a lot of the faculty members, a lot of the staff members, and a lot of the students, because this was one of the few all-male institutions.
But once it happened, how were the women treated once they got here?
With reserve.
What about integration, racial integration?
Probably the integration of women was harder.
No, no.
I mean, probably the influence of women was harder than integration.
That's what I think.
One of the first black students that went to campus, I cannot remember his name, but I know he was in that display that we had that Angus did, worked in the library, and he and I talked a lot.
In the past, we had a lot of, we've always had a lot of international students.
We had more people from, the people from India, Pakistan area was almost as much as population is from Texas, for example.
So we've always had the students of other nationalities here.
So I think that was easier for the integration because of this.
Although I know a lot of international students kind of banded together for their social deals, but they tried to integrate with the others and they had organizations and clubs and they would have the, I know the Indian Association had their celebration and they still do in January where they have programs and now they have an international week in which they have booths set up for the people from the different countries to show.
So I think that helped with integration.
Because I think integration here went about as well as it could have anywhere.
Right.
We didn't seem to have anybody boycott a class because someone was in there.
We didn't have them boycott restrooms or seating or anything else, at least not in the library.
For you personally, what were your high points and low points in these 30 some odd years as a professional here?
I'm a people person, so I enjoyed the variety of people that I came in contact with, whether it was an elementary school student from the public or one of the professors on campus.
I enjoyed working with international students.
I felt like that we in the library were ambassadors to the world because whatever help we gave, whatever impression we made on somebody, they took back to their native country
And then they would come back because I had a student that was a very good close friend of mine in 64, 65, and he was from India.
And he did his postdoc here and he worked here.
And when he went back because of the way his visa ran, and then several years later in the 70s, I was at break.
there was an Indian lady that worked for us and she was breaking at the same time and she asked someone, there was another lady here by the name of Lynn, she said, I have a friend back in Bombay that sent one of his postdoc students here to A&M because of the program that he was in, he was in agriculture, and
I know him and he said to find out if there's someone at the library named Lynn because she will be a big help to him and she can find anything he needs.
And I don't know who she's talking about.
Well, the other lady's name was Lynn Furr and she was a thesis clerk.
And she said, ask us, she says, do you know who he's talking about?
And I said, yes, that's me.
So this professor in India was sending his graduate students doing post-doc work to A&M to look up
me and it made me feel good that somewhere else that i'd never seen occasionally and i don't now but i would hear from the students and like i said one of the ladies that lived in the house where i did um she was in statistics and her friends were of course the statisticians and she married a young man from indonesia and his name is suharto
And his American name was Sam Suharto because they had one name.
And she worked in the American University there in Jakarta.
And now they're in New York working with the UN, both of them.
And occasionally they come by through here to see how things have changed on campus.
And I know Sam would be going to a
conference in Europe and he'd circle by through College Station to see how things were here and stop by to see me.
Which made me feel good.
I've had students that were in some of my classes that I took that came back
and said, I'm so glad you were in class with me.
Can you help me find them?
So, you know, that's some of the, and to see the guys and the people say, I'm leaving as soon as I graduate and I'll never darken the doors of the college station again, and here they are again, in some capacity or other.
All right, let's go to the other extreme.
During these 30-some odd years, low points, frustrations, sadnesses, disappointments.
I hate to see a lot of my people, friends move.
and lose contact with them.
I think with the growth of the university there's not quite as much relationship with some of the ones in different departments.
It's less personal now.
There's, I don't know as many people, say, in the history department as I did then.
And I know, I don't see as many of them coming, since there's only one entrance to the library as there was.
And I wonder what has happened to some of my old, old friends.
Alright, now I'm about through.
What have we not talked about that we should have?
Do you think of any topics we should have mentioned?
Well, I know you asked me the other day to relate the fact that when I first came here, that not only the most important thing a woman could know on campus, not only which buildings had the ladies' rooms, but who had the key.
And this was still important to some of the people in 1979, which was 10 or 12 years later.
Because by that time, I was finishing up my master's at A&M in history.
And Dr. Herb Lang was my chairman.
And when I was doing the defense of that, he asked me, you know, he said, I know you're nervous.
Just be calm.
I'll take care of you.
And Dr. Lang did take care of me.
And he said, I know you'll probably need to go to the ladies' room.
And I think, what was her name?
Isabel, the Spanish-type lady that was a departmental secretary in history, has the key to the ladies' room.
And he made sure.
Yeah.
that I had a chance to go there about midway through the time period.
He was the old school and he said, well, do we need to take a break now?
Did I need to do that?
And I know I had someone on the committee who was in the College of Education and he asked something.
about the dedication to my thesis or something.
And he said, well, we just don't do that.
And Dr. Long says, we do do that in history.
That is important to us, that you acknowledge people that have helped you.
So that's... Other topics that we should have covered?
Well, it's good to see that a lot of the students that have worked in the library have, some of them have gone on and not come back in any capacity.
Others have felt like they have learned so much at the library that they've gone on and gotten a degree and become librarians.
So we've influenced a lot of students and a lot of librarians in the United States.
I'm glad that A&M has, it was sad and it was good, too.
We have a reputation of being a good training place for new librarians.
I always told them at other library schools that we would, if they'd go to work at A&M, they'd get a good background in training for their jobs.
And people that have gone on to other libraries have gone on as heads of departments or in the administrative.
And they got their start here at the library.
Let's make believe that you were hired as a consultant now to the decision makers regarding Texas A&M.
What advice would you give them about A&M's library from here into the future?
What should A&M do and not do regarding its library?
I know the trend is to go to non-centralized library because of the size.
But if you have everything in one area,
They can be studying for their English class and have the materials.